\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename gnome-speech-speechd-driver.info
@settitle Speakup--Speech Dispatcher interface
@finalout
@c @setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Sound

@direntry
* Gnome Speech SpeechD Driver: (gnome-speech-speechd-driver). Dispatcher driver
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title SpeechD-Up
@author Hynek Hanke <@email{hanke@@brailcom.org}>

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

This manual documents Gnome Speech SpeechD Driver, version 1.0.

Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Brailcom, o.p.s.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the distribution.
@end quotation

@end titlepage

@ifnottex
@node Top,  , (dir), (dir)

This manual documents Gnome Speech SpeechD Driver, version 0.1.

Copyright @copyright{} 2001, 2002, 2003 Brailcom, o.p.s.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no
Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included
in the distribution.
@end quotation
@end ifnottex

@ifhtml
@heading SpeechD-Up
@end ifhtml

@code{gnome-speech-speechd-driver} is a very simple driver for Gnome
Speech allowing it to use Speech Dispatcher's services. One of the
main applications using Gnome Speech is the Gnopernicus screen
reader. For more information about Speech Dispatcher, please
@xref{Top,,,speech-dispatcher, the documentation of Speech
Dispatcher}.

If you used your distribution packaging system to install it, there
should be nothing else you need to configure. See the attached file
@code{INSTALL} if you are installing the driver from source code.

Once the driver is installed, you can set it up in Gnopernicus by
going to the menu Settings/Speech/Voices. Please note there is a bug
in Gnopernicus in the default settings of rate and pitch. You might
hear a funny voice from Speech Dispatcher at first. This can be fixed
by manually setting the default values of rate and pitch to it's
minimum in this dialog, and when the voice gets to normal, you can
fine tune them.

You can set default parameter values (e.g. language and default
synthesizer) in the configuration of Speech Dispatcher using this
driver's connection key: @code{unknown:gnomespeech:main}. A mask for
gnomespeech.conf in Speech Dispatcher might thus look
e.g. @code{*:gnomespeech:*}.

Please ask questions, send suggestions and report bugs on
@code{speechd@@lists.freebsoft.org}.

@bye

@c speechd.texi ends here

